                                                                  WORKSHEET-1  Statistics


Ans1. (A) True

Ans2. (A) Central Limit Theorem

Ans3. (B) Modeling bounded count data

Ans4. (D) All of the mentioned

Ans5. (C) Poisson

Ans6. (B) False

Ans7. (B) Hypothesis

Ans8. (A) 0

Ans9. (C) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship


Ans10. Normal Distribution :- Also known as the Gaussian distribution.
   ->  It is a probability distribution that is symmetric about the mean,showing that data near the mean are more frequent in occurrence than data far from the mean. 
   ->  In graph form, normal distribution will appear as a bell curve.
       Key term Normal Distribution
    1. A normal distribution is the proper term for a probability bell curve.
    2. In a normal distribution the mean is zero and the standard deviation is 1. It has zero skew and a kurtosis of 3.
    3. Normal distributions are symmetrical, but not all symmetrical distributions are normal.
    4. In reality, most pricing distributions are not perfectly normal.


Ans11. Handling Missing Data :-
   ->  One technique is to use the data analysis methods which are robust to the problems caused by the missing data.
   ->  An analysis method is considered robust when there is confidence that mild to moderate violations of the assumptions will produce little to no bias 
       or distortion in the conclusions drawn on the population.
   ->  However,it is not always possible to use such techniques. Therefore,a number of alternative ways of handling the missing data has been developed.

       Multiple imputation techniques are recommended :-  
   ->  Multiple imputation is useful strategy for handling the missing data. 
   ->  In a multiple imputation,instead of substituting a single value for each missing data,the missing values are replaced with a set of possible values 
       which contain the natural variability and uncertainty of the right values. 
       This approach begin with a prediction of the missing data using the existing data from other variables. 
       The missing values are then replaced with the predicted values,and a full dataset called the imputed dataset is created.
   ->  The benefit of the multiple imputation is that in addition to restoring the natural variability of the missing values,it incorporates the uncertainty 
       due to the missing data, which results in a valid statistical inference.


Ans12. A/B testing :- (Also known as split testing)
   ->  It is a process of showing two variants of the same web page to different segments of website visitors at the same time and comparing 
       which variant drives more conversions.
   ->  It offers a very systematic way of finding out what works and what doesn’t in any given marketing campaign.Most marketing efforts are geared 
       towards driving more traffic.But,as traffic acquisition becomes more difficult and expensive,it becomes paramount to offer the best experience 
       to your users who come to your website.This will help them achieve their goals and allow them to convert in the fastest and most efficient manner possible. 
   ->  A/B testing in marketing allows you to make the most out of your existing traffic.


Ans13. Mean imputation is a method in which the missing value on a certain variable is replaced by the mean of the available cases.This method maintains the 
       sample size and is easy to use, but the variability in the data is reduced,so the standard deviations and the variance estimates tend to be underestimated. 
       The magnitude of the covariances and correlation also decreases by restricting the variability and this method often causes biased estimates,irrespective  
       of the underlying missing data mechanism.For missings on multi-item questionnaires,mean imputation can be applied at the item level.One option is to impute 
       the missing item scores with the item mean for each item.In that case the average of the respondents with observed scores for each item is computed and 
       that average value is imputed for respondents with a missing score.Another option is to impute the person mean.In that method the average of the observed
       item scores for each respondent is computed and that average is imputed for the item scores that are missing for that respondent. This option is also called 
       average of the available items. 
       Both these methods result in biased analysis results, especially when missing data are not MCAR. Nevertheless, these methods are often advised in questionnaire
       manuals. 
       Another method,that combines item mean imputation and person mean imputation is two-way imputation.In this method the imputed value is calculated by adding 
       the person mean to the item mean and subtract the overall mean from that score.


Ans14. Linear Regression :- 
   ->  In statistics, linear regression is a linear approach to modeling the relationship between a scalar response and one or more explanatory variables.  
   ->  The case of one explanatory variable is called simple linear regression.For more than one explanatory variable, the process is called multiple linear regression.
   ->  Linear regression is a basic and commonly used type of predictive analysis.The overall idea of regression is to examine two things: 
  
  (1)  Does a set of predictor variables do a good job in predicting an outcome (dependent) variable?  
  (2)  Which variables in particular are significant predictors of the outcome variable, and in what way do they indicated by the magnitude and sign of the 
       beta estimates–impact the outcome variable?  
   ->  These regression estimates are used to explain the relationship between one dependent variable and one or more independent variables. 


Ans15. Branches of Statistics :- Descriptive Statistics and Inferential Statistics
   1.  Descriptive Statistics :
       a. Descriptive statistics deals with the presentation and collection of data. This is usually the first part of a statistical analysis. 
       b. It is usually not as simple as it sounds,and the statistician needs to be aware of designing experiments,choosing the right focus group and avoid biases 
          that are so easy to creep into the experiment.
       c. Different areas of study require different kinds of analysis using descriptive statistics.For example, a physicist studying turbulence in the laboratory 
          needs the average quantities that vary over small intervals of time.The nature of this problem requires that physical quantities be averaged from a host 
          of data collected through the experiment.
   2.  Inferential Statistics :
       a. Inferential statistics, as the name suggests, involves drawing the right conclusions from the statistical analysis that has been performed using 
          descriptive statistics. In the end, it is the inferences that make studies important and this aspect is dealt with in inferential statistics.
       b. Most predictions of the future and generalizations about a population by studying a smaller sample come under the purview of inferential statistics. 
          Most social sciences experiments deal with studying a small sample population that helps determine how the population in general behaves. 
          By designing the right experiment, the researcher is able to draw conclusions relevant to his study.
 