                                                                        WORKSHEET- 3 (STATISTICS)


Ans1. (B) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation

Ans2. (C) binomial

Ans3. (A) 2

Ans4. (A) Type-I error

Ans5. (C) Level of confidence

Ans6. (B) Increases

Ans7. (B) Hypothesis

Ans8. (D) All of the mentioned

Ans9. (A) 0

Ans10. Bayes' theorem, named after 18th-century British mathematician Thomas Bayes, is a mathematical formula for determining conditional probability. Conditional 
       probability is the likelihood of an outcome occurring, based on a previous outcome occurring. Bayes' theorem provides a way to revise existing predictions or 
       theories (update probabilities) given new or additional evidence. In finance, Bayes' theorem can be used to rate the risk of lending money to potential borrowers.

   ->  Bayes' theorem is also called Bayes' Rule or Bayes' Law and is the foundation of the field of Bayesian statistics. 

   ->  Formula For Bayes' Theorem
       P(A|B) = P(A).P(B|A) / P(B)
	 
       where:
       P(A)= The probability of A occurring
       P(B)= The probability of B occurring
       P(A|B)=The probability of A given B
       P(B|A)= The probability of B given A

Ans11. A z-score describes the position of a raw score in terms of its distance from the mean, when measured in standard deviation units. The z-score is positive if 
       the value lies above the mean, and negative if it lies below the mean.

       Z = x-u/b
       Z = standard score
       x = observed value
       u = mean of the sample
       b(sigma)=standard deviation of the sample

Ans12. A t-test is a statistical test that compares the means of two samples. It is used in hypothesis testing, with a null hypothesis that the difference in group
       means is zero and an alternate hypothesis that the difference in group means is different from zero.

       t = (m-u) / (s/sqrt(n))
       t = Student's t-test
       m = mean
       u = theoretical value
       s = standard deviation
       n = variable set size

Ans13. In statistics, a percentile (or a centile) is a type of quantile which divides the given probability distribution, or sample, into 100 equal-sized intervals;
       this allows the data to be analyzed in terms of percentages. For example, the 20th percentile is the value (or score) below which 20% of the observations are 
       found, and above which 80% are found.

Ans14. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) is a collection of statistical models and their associated estimation procedures(such as the "variation" among and between groups)
       used to analyze the differences among group means in a sample.The ANOVA is based on the law of total variance,where the observed variance in a particular 
       variable is partitioned into components attributable to different sources of variation.In its simplest form,ANOVA provides a statistical test of whether two or
       more population means are equal, and therefore generalizes the t-test beyond two means.

Ans15. An ANOVA test is a way to find out if survey or experiment results are significant. In other words, they help you to figure out if you need to reject the null
       hypothesis or accept the alternate hypothesis. Basically, you're testing groups to see if there's a difference between them.