                                                        WORKSHEET-2  MACHINE LEARNING


Ans1. A (2 Only)

Ans2. D (1, 2 and 4)

Ans3. A (True)

Ans4. A (1 only)

Ans5. B (1)

Ans6. B (No)

Ans7. A (Yes)

Ans8. D (All of the above)

Ans9. D (1 and 3)

Ans10. A (K-means clustering algorithm)

Ans11. D (All of the above)

Ans12. D (All of the above)

Ans13. K sensitive to outliers :-

   ->  K-Means clustering algorithm is most sensitive to outliers as it uses the mean of cluster data points to find the cluster center.
   ->  An outlier is a point which is different from the rest of data points.
   ->  K-medoids clustering is a variant of K-means that is more robust to noises and outliers. Instead of using the mean point as the center 
       of a cluster, K-medoids uses an actual point in the cluster to represent it. Medoid is the most centrally located object of the cluster,
       with minimum sum of distances to other points.
   ->  Mean is greatly influenced by the outlier and thus cannot represent the correct cluster center, while medoid is robust to the outlier 
       and correctly represents the cluster center.

Ans14. Reasons for better K-means :-
      
   ->  K-means has better than other clustering algorithms like density-based, expectation-maximisation. It is one of the most robust methods, especially 
       for image segmentation and image annotation projects. 
   ->  K-means is very simple and easy to implement.This is considered one of the simplest unsupervised learning algorithms, wherein data is split
       into k distinct clusters based on distance to the centroid of a cluster.
   ->  K-means is used to learn feature representations for images (use k-means to cluster small patches of pixels from natural images, then represent images
       in the basis of cluster centres; repeat this several times to form a “deep” network of feature representations) gives image classification results 
       that are competitive with much more complex deep neural network models. In fact, a lot of k-means applications are now done using support vector machines.

Ans15. K-means a deterministic algorithm :- 
     
   ->  A deterministic algorithm is simply an algorithm that has a predefined output. For instance if you are sorting elements that are strictly 
       ordered (no equal elements) the output is well defined and so the algorithm is deterministic. In fact most of the computer algorithms are deterministic.
   ->  K-means algorithm is highly sensitive to the choice of initial cluster centers. Thus, the algorithm easily gets trapped with local optimum if the initial 
       centers are chosen randomly. 
   ->  There is a deterministic initialization algorithm for K-means (DK-means) by exploring a set of probable centers through a constrained bi-partitioning 
       approach. 
   ->  The proposed algorithm is compared with classical K-means with random initialization and improved K-means variants such as K-means++ and MinMax 
       algorithms. It is also compared with three deterministic initialization methods. Experimental analysis on gene expression datasets demonstrates that 
       DK-means achieves improved results in terms of faster and stable convergence, and better cluster quality as compared to other algorithms.